Hi, Mystery Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain a dystopian science-fiction
action-thriller film called "What Happened
to Monday."
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care!
In 2043, the population of the Earth has multiplied
many folds.
There is a massive shortage of resources of
all kinds.
The world opts for genetically modified crops
which get fast-tracked around the globe.
But this leads to a staggering spike in multiple
births across the world.
The solution is now feeding the problem.
No one knows what to do.
Political activist and renowned conservation
biologist Dr. Nicolette Cayman has prompted
the Federation to institute a “one child
per family” policy.
A bureau called Child Allocation Bureau (C.A.B)
is formed to enforce this policy.
All citizens are required to wear a Bureau-issued
identity bracelet.
This bracelet could be scanned in order to
identify people at various checkpoints throughout cities
When scanned, the bracelets present data that
states if you have a sibling or not.
If another sibling is present, police are
informed and, upon arrival, take the child.
These children are put into cryosleep and
they will be woken up when the crisis the
world is going through is handled.
They will awaken in a better world.
That year, a woman named Karen Settman has
Septuplets, thanks to the genetically modified
food.
Karen dies.
The twins' grandfather, Terrence doesn’t announce the 7 siblings
to the authorities.
He names them each by one day of the week.
He decides that all 7 of them will live in
secrecy in a place that has hidden areas (which
he builds).
He trains them all to take on the identity
of Karen Settman.
Each of them gets one day of the week to go
out and be Karen.
Sunday will get to go outside on Sunday, Monday
on Monday, Tuesday on Tuesday, and so on.
They grow up sharing the identity of Karen.
When each of them comes back home, they explain
to the others how their day was.
This step is important as it allows the next
girl to go out and continue being Karen.
They are all fitted with electronic bracelets
that are hacked by Terrence so that they could
all be identified as Karen Settman.
These bracelets are also fitted with GPS so
that their location could be known when they
are out of the house.
Terrence also makes a hiding place that they
could use when someone comes to the apartment.
One Saturday, Saturday is attending a ballet
contest, but Thursday decides to sneak out
and skate.
So when Saturday comes back, Thursday is still
missing.
Terrence is very worried....suddenly they
hear a knock on the door and they all immediately
hide in their hiding place except Saturday.
Terrence immediately takes a gun and carefully
opens the door, it turns out that the person
is Thursday who has returned ... but tragically
Thursday gets her index finger cut off because
she fell off the skateboard.
Since all of the girls need to look the same,
Terrence cuts the index fingers off all the
other girls starting from Monday.
30 years later, when they are adults, their
grandfather has died and they also have different
characteristics and appearances.
Monday is the firstborn, and she’s the good
girl, the golden child, the A-type personality
— and she, of all the sisters, embraced
the collective identity.
Tuesday is the paranoid pothead — a little
bit of a loose cannon.
Wednesday is the athletic one, the fighter
of the bunch.
Thursday is the bad girl — she’s the rebel,
and she craves her own identity and autonomy.
Friday is the smart one, the computer geek,
and the sisters only have their life, their
career, their success, because of Friday.
Saturday gets to hang out on Saturday, be
home-schooled, and never went to work probably
a day in her life: so she’s the wild child,
she’s the lucky one, she gets to party her
face off.
And Sunday is the caregiver: she goes to church
on Sunday and is supposed to be the believer
of the bunch.
As they have different appearances, The sisters
use wigs and makeup to cover any identifying
features.
On one Monday, it's time for Monday to go
out of the house, but she is too nervous because
that day, Karen Sethman is going to give a
presentation at the office to get a promotion.
Monday prepares her disguise.
On her way to the office, at a checkpoint,
Monday runs into Adrian, a C.A.B. agent.
He is checking her identity and talks to her.
Arriving at work, Monday meets Jerry in the
elevator..who is also eyeing for the promotion.
Jerry tells Karen that he knows her secret
and blackmails her to get the promotion.
At night, the sisters are waiting for Monday
who hasn't returned home, they track the GPS
location of Monday's bracelet, but strangely
her whereabouts cannot be traced.
The sisters freak out and assume something
happened to Monday.
Next day, Tuesday heads out to work and tries
to act normal.
Tuesday learns that Monday got the promotion
and met Jerry at a bar.
Before she can investigate further, C.A.B.
agents detain her and cut off her communications.
In the C.A.B. facility, Adrian sees Tuesday
escorted to a cell, where she meets Nicolette
Cayman, head of the C.A.B.
Cayman reveals that she knows that Tuesday
has many siblings...and she knows there are
still 5 of her twins living in her apartment.
Then a CAB agent named Joe grabs Tuesday and
points a knife at her.
In the apartment, the 5 remaining sisters
begin to panic.
Not long after, CAB agents come and enter
their apartment with Karen’s eye to bypass
a retinal scanner.
A fight ensues between the CAB agents and
the sisters.
The sisters manage to defeat the agents, but
Sunday is shot and she dies.
The remaining 4 sisters are crying over Sunday's
death and getting more depressed.
At the apartment, Friday learns that the eye
is Tuesday's, and the sisters suspect Jerry
may have sold them out.
The next day, Wednesday leaves without disguising
herself and confronts Jerry.
However, it turns out that Jerry doesn’t
know anything about Karen’s identity as
one of seven people.
All he knows is that Karen has a contract
with Nicolette Cayman.
He reveals that "Karen" got the promotion
when she sent millions of euros to Cayman
to fund her campaign.
He doesn’t know any other detail.
Not long after, a C.A.B.sniper kills Jerry,
so Wednesday immediately flees his apartment,
but unfortunately, a CAB Agent , Joe manages
to corner Wednesday and finally shots her
dead.
In the twins' apartment, someone knocks on
their door.
Only Saturday, Friday, and Thursday are remaining
in the apartment.....Friday and Thursday immediately
hide and Saturday opens the door....it turns
out that the person is Adrian, a CAB agent.
Adrian flirts with Saturday, however, Saturday
doesn't recognize this person.
Saturday finally realizes...Adrian has a romantic
relationship with one of them.
, Adrian invites Saturday to go to his apartment.
She asks for a time-out and goes in to meet
with her sisters.
Thursday tells Saturday to go with Adrian
because Adrian is a CAB agent so they might
get a clue about Monday's whereabouts.
Friday also tells Saturday to secretly sync
her bracelet with Andrian’s to be able to
hack into the CAB server.
Saturday finally agrees and goes with Adrian
to his apartment.
At his apartment, Saturday digs information
from Adrian.
It turns out that Monday was the one who had
been seeing Adrian.
Then Saturday secretly syncs her bracelet
with Adrian's, as Friday suggested.
This allows Friday to get access into C.A.B's
servers.
On a video feed, the sisters believe they
have found Monday in a holding cell.
After Adrian left his apartment, Saturday
immediately tells Friday and Thursday that
Monday was the one who had been secretly dating
Adrian.
At the same time, CAB agents arrive and kill
Saturday in front of her sisters' eyes...
Not long after, Karen's apartment is raided
by CAB agents led by Joe.
Friday sacrifices herself by blowing up their
apartment to allow Thursday to escape and
rescue Monday..
Now, only two twins remain, Thursday...and
Monday, who are still locked up...
Adrian hears about the explosion at Karen's
Apartment and goes straight to the apartment.
There, he meets Thursday who directly confronts
him in his car, Thursday assumes that Adrian
was the one who had reported Karen.
However, Adrian does not know anything about
these seven twins.
Adrian now realizes that Karen is actually
a septuplet and he claims that he loves Monday.
He finally agrees to help Thursday to rescue
Monday.
Adrian sneaks Thursday into CAB headquarters
with a body bag.
She is brought into the cryosleep room.
There, she secretly records a child undergoing
cryosleep.
Instead of being frozen, the child is incinerated.
When it is Thurday's turn, Thursday immediately
kicks the officer and put her in cryosleep.
Adrian helps Thursday to get out of the cryosleep
room...and they find the cell where Monday
is locked up..
But it turns out that Tuesday is the one in
the cell with one of her eyes removed.
Finally, Adrian and Tuesday are assigned to
hack a video operator and show a shocking
video about cryosleep at a fundraising event
being held by the Cayman.
Meanwhile, Thursday search for Monday.
Finally Thursday meets Monday in a restroom.
Monday looks fine... it turns out that Monday
is the one who betrays the sisters.. she wants
to be the one and only Karen and reported
her twins to Cayman.
Monday also sends large sums of money to Caymans
as bribes...
Thursday and Monday fight in the restroom,
and eventually, Thursday accidentally shoots Monday
Thursday then disguises as Monday at the fundraising
event and Cayman doesn’t realize this.
Meanwhile, Tuesday and Adrian broadcast Thursday's
video footage of the child's incineration,
leaving everyone at the event shocked.
At that moment, Cayman realizes that Thursday
is in disguise.
She angrily confronts Thursday, choking her.
Monday, who is severely injured, gets out
of the toilet, pointing a gun at Thursday.
Joe shoots Monday, thinking she intends to
kill Cayman, and Adrian kills Joe.
As the crowd flees, Monday reveals to Thursday
that she betrayed them because she is pregnant
with Adrian's children...
Unfortunately, twins.
Which means one of her children will be taken
away.
For the sake of her children, she makes a
deal with Cayman.
She secretly compromises the knowledge and
location of her six sisters in return for
her to be free and live her life normally
as Karen.
Not long after, Monday dies from her wounds.
In the end of the story, the one-child policy
is abolished, and Cayman faces the death penalty.
Thursday, Adrian, and Tuesday are the ones
that remain alive.
Monday's and Adrian's twins develop in an
artificial womb. As the camera dollies out,
hundreds of babies are seen crying in one
enormous ward, as nursing staff care for them.
And that's the ending of the movie “WHAT
HAPPENED TO MONDAY”
Subscribe for more videos like this, turn
on notifications, and leave a like to help
the channel out.
Thank you for watching.